=JThergas Wiki Page=

JTHERGAS (a JAVA implementation of THERGAS) estimates thermodynamic information from two dimensional graphical representations of molecules and radicals based on the Benson additivity method. The main use of this method is within automatic combustion mechanism generation systems where fast estimation of a large number and variety of chemical species is needed. The implementation strategy is based on meta-atom definitions and substructure analysis allowing a highly extensible database without modification of the core algorithms. Several interfaces for the database and the calculations are provided from terminal line commands, to graphical interfaces to web-services. The first order estimation of thermodynamics is based summing up the contributions of each heavy atom bonding description. Second order corrections due to steric hindrance and ring strain are made. Automatic estimate of contributions due to internal, external and optical symmetries are also made. Radicals are calculated by taking the difference due to the lost of hydrogen radicals taking into account changes in symmetry, spin, rotations, vibrations and steric hindrances. The software is public domain.

The purpose of these pages is to keep track of tests and the development of testing and data input routines. This wiki document is divided into several sections. Some of the information is on usage of the system and some of the information gives some detail into the implementation.

* Installation of the system
    * [JThergas-CoreSystemInstallation Installation of core system] These are the instructions to install the core system (to run at the line)
    * [JThergas-CoreSystemInstallationWithNetBeans Installation of core system with NetBeans] These are the instructions to install the core system using the NetBeans interface
 * Usage of the system
    * [JThergasLineCommands Line commands for data input and testing] The basic form of the JTHERGAS system is the line command. This section gives how to set up the batch JTHERGAS system (meaning the command line form) and the types of commands that can be given (along with scripts). The goal is to 
 * Implementation Notes
    * [wiki:JThergasSQLTables SQL tables in JThermodyanmics]
    * [wiki:JThergasConcepts Important concepts within the JTHERGAS implementation]
 * Development
    * [wiki:JThergasTests Tests and results for tests] This gives an indication of current testing and the classes of molecules that have been tested. 
    * [wiki:JThergasFeatures Addition of features]


== Index ==

[[TitleIndex(format=hierarchy,min=4,JThergas)]]