To install a local version of the core system of JTHERGAS, with line commands, there are essentially three steps:

 * '''System level installations''': These are packages on which JTHERGAS is built.
      * '''SQL''': This involves downloading the SQL system (or maybe it is already installed).
      * '''JRE''': Install the JAVA runtime system (JRE).
 * '''Jar files''': Jar files are the JAVA library files. There are essentially equivalent to Microsoft dll libraries, or UNIX lib files.
      * '''JTherGas.jar''': This is a jar file of the JTHERGAS system with primitives related to reading THERGAS information.
      * '''JThermodyanicData.jar''': This is the jar file with JTHERGAS system.
      * '''JAVA packages''': The JTHERGAS system is built upon several JAVA packages. Each package has its own jar file.
            * '''cdk-1.1.1.jar''': This is the Chemistry Development Kit, a standard set of JAVA chemistry classes, primarily for organic chemistry.
            * '''jumbo-5.4.2-b1.jar'''
            * '''mysql-connector-java-5.1.6-bin.jar'''
            * '''swing-layout-1.0.4.jar'''
            * '''xom-1.1.jar'''
 * '''JThermodynamics_.sql''': The SQL database dump of the current database

== System level installations ==

=== SQL ===

The data in the JTHERGAS system is stored in an [http://www.mysql.com/ MYSQL] database. This has to be installed on the computer where JTHERGAS is installed.
On the [http://www.mysql.com/downloads/ Downloads] page select "MySQL Community Server" to download. Select the version for your computer and operating system.

During the installation, users are set up.
Though this will change, the current version of JTHERGAS needs the root user with a password 'laguna'. 





=== JRE ===

The JTHERGAS system is based on [http://www.java.com JAVA].  [http://www.java.com/en/download/index.jsp Download] and install the java version for your computer and operating system. 

== Jar files ==

The jar files, which are the library files of the JAVA system, should be put in a single directory. They are all needed to run the system (see the command below).


=== External Jar Files === 
 * '''External JAVA packages''': The JTHERGAS system is built upon several JAVA packages. Each package has its own jar file. These are packaged in a zip file.
    * '''cdk-1.1.1.jar''': This is the Chemistry Development Kit, a standard set of JAVA chemistry classes, primarily for organic chemistry.
    * '''jumbo-5.4.2-b1.jar'''
    * '''mysql-connector-java-5.1.6-bin.jar'''
    * '''swing-layout-1.0.4.jar'''
    * '''xom-1.1.jar'''

These are relatively stable are not updated.

=== JTEHRGAS jar files ===

The JTHERGAS system is made up of two jar files:

 * '''JTherGas.jar'''
 * '''JThermodyanicData.jar'''

When the system is updated, these jar files are updated. 

== SQL Database Dump ==

The current version of the SQL database is dumped to an ASCII file. This file is read in 

[JThergas back]