This command is used to input substructures having to do with thermodynamic corrections for substructures. The form of the command is:
*SubstructureThermo*:: 
       The command keyword
*Filename.don*:: 
       The filename (relative to the current directory) of the thermodaynamic substructure information.
*Type Of Correction*::
       This is a single keyword specifying the type of correction. Different correction may have difference consequences. The accepted correction types are *Cycle* and ''StericCorrections''
*Correction Source*::
       This is a single keyword signifying the source of the correction. 

A Sample input is:
     SubstructureThermo Cycles.don Cycles StandardCycles

where:

SubstructureThermo::
   The keyword
Cycles.don::
   The filename in the current directory
Cycles::
   The type of correction
StandardCycles::
   The keyword specifying that these are the standard cycles.

The following is the first part of the Cycles.don file:

{{{

c          ecriture lineaire version octobre 85 (modified October 2010)
c          corrections cycles et table 12
c          (cbf ajoutes)
g
  1  60 1.cyclopropane ring                               1 0.0 1.0     1 1.0j73
l  cR2(#1)/cR2/cR2/1                                                            
  1  60 2  1  27.600 1  32.100 1 -3.05 -2.53 -2.10 -1.90 -1.77 -1.62 -1.52 0 j73
  1  60 3  0 0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0j7
  1  62 1.cyclopropene ring                               1 0.0 1.0     1 1.0j73
l  cR2(#1)/cR//cR/1                                                           
  1  62 2  1  53.700 1  33.600 0  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00 0 j73
  1  62 3  0 0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0j7
  1  63 1.cyclobutane ring                                1 0.0 1.0     1 1.0j73
l  cR2(#1)/cR2/cR2/cR2/1                                                          
  1  63 2  1  26.200 1  29.800 1 -4.61 -3.89 -3.14 -2.64 -1.88 -1.38 -0.67 0 j73
  1  63 3  0 0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0j7
}}}

The *c* at the beginning of the line signifies a comment.

The first non-comment line of the file is g specifying that this is gas phase (this is the only form JThergas accepts).

There are three blocks of data specifying corrections for ''cyclopropane ring'', ''cyclopropene ring'' and ''cyclobutane ring''
with structures {{{cR2(#1)/cR2/cR2/1}}}, {{{cR2(#1)/cR//cR/1}}} and  {{{cR2(#1)/cR2/cR2/cR2/1}}}, respectively. The input form is that of 
a StandardThermodynamicBlock (see link for exact format) used by THERGAS. 

For the cyclopropane ring, the following information is given (starting at column 14):
 * Standard Enthalpy: 53.700
 * Standard Entropy: 33.600
 * Heat Capacities at 300,400,500,600,800,1000, and 1500: -3.05 -2.53 -2.10 -1.90 -1.77 -1.62 and -1.52


Note that in the structures *R* is used to specify connection to a carbon or hydrogen.


== Database modifications ==

In the ''cyclopropane ring'' example above, entries are made in the CMLStructures, StructureTypes, GroupStandardEnthalpy, GroupStandardEntropy and the Group table.

Note that for the thermodynamic corrections, the information is stored in the same way as for the benson rules.

In the GroupStandardEnthalpy table, the standard enthalpy of the cycle corrections are found. For example, for cyclopropane, the *ElementName* is set to ''cyclepropane ring'', the StandardEnthalpy is set to ''27.6'', the *Reference* is set to ''StandardCycles''. 

In the GroupStandardEntropy table, the standard entropy of the cycle corrections are found. For example, for cyclopropane, the *ElementName* is set to ''cyclepropane ring'', the StandardEntropy is set to ''32.1'', the *Reference* is set to ''StandardCycles''. 

In the HeatCapacityElement table seven entries are made each corresponding to the heat capacity at a given temperature. For cyclopropane ring, for all the elements
the *ElementName* is set to ''cyclepropane ring'' and the *Reference* is set to ''StandardCycles''. The temperature is set in *Temperature* and the actual heat capacity value is set in *HeatCapacity*. For cyclpropane ring, the seven added elements correspond to the 7 standard temperatures (as in Benson's book), 300,400,500,600,800,1000, and 1500, with the corresponding heat capacity values, -3.05, -2.53, -2.10, -1.90, -1.77, -1.62 and -1.52.

In the CMLStructures table, the *ElementName* is set to ''cyclopropane ring'' and the *Source* is set to ''StandardCycles''.
The structure itself is found in CML form in *CMLStructure*:
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
<molecule id="cyclopropane ring" xmlns="http://www.xml-cml.org/schema">
  <atomArray>
    <atom id="a0" title="H" elementType="Du" formalCharge="0"/>
    <atom id="a1" title="H" elementType="Du" formalCharge="0"/>
    <atom id="a2" title="H" elementType="Du" formalCharge="0"/>
    <atom id="a3" title="H" elementType="Du" formalCharge="0"/>
    <atom id="a4" title="H" elementType="Du" formalCharge="0"/>
    <atom id="a5" title="H" elementType="Du" formalCharge="0"/>
    <atom id="a6" elementType="C" formalCharge="0">
      <scalar dictRef="cdk:partialCharge" dataType="xsd:double">0.0</scalar>
    </atom>
    <atom id="a7" elementType="C" formalCharge="0">
      <scalar dictRef="cdk:partialCharge" dataType="xsd:double">0.0</scalar>
    </atom>
    <atom id="a8" elementType="C" formalCharge="0">
      <scalar dictRef="cdk:partialCharge" dataType="xsd:double">0.0</scalar>
    </atom>
  </atomArray>
  <bondArray>
    <bond id="b1" atomRefs2="a0 a6" order="S"/>
    <bond id="b2" atomRefs2="a1 a6" order="S"/>
    <bond id="b3" atomRefs2="a7 a6" order="S"/>
    <bond id="b4" atomRefs2="a2 a7" order="S"/>
    <bond id="b5" atomRefs2="a3 a7" order="S"/>
    <bond id="b6" atomRefs2="a8 a7" order="S"/>
    <bond id="b7" atomRefs2="a4 a8" order="S"/>
    <bond id="b8" atomRefs2="a5 a8" order="S"/>
    <bond id="b9" atomRefs2="a6 a8" order="S"/>
  </bondArray>
</molecule>
}}}

In the *StructureTypes* table, the list of molecules having the type *Cycles* are listed. For example, for cyclepropane ring, the *ElementName* is set to ''cyclepropane ring'' and the *StructureType* is set to ''Cycles''.



[JThergasLineCommandsDatabase back]